Anyway, free software means software that
respects the user's freedom.
Now, to be more specific, there are four essential
freedoms:
Freedom 0 is the freedom to run the program
any way you like.
Freedom 1 is the freedom to study the source
code
and then change it to do what you like.
Freedom 2 is the freedom to distribute
copies to other people.
And Freedom 3 is the freedom to publish a
modified version
so others can get the benefit of your improvements.
I like to call freedoms 1, 2 and 3
"the freedom to help yourself",
"the freedom to help your neighbour"
and "the freedom to help build your community".
Freedom 1, the freedom to help yourself, is
the freedom to study and change the program.
The freedom to help your neighbour is
the freedom to distribute copies.
And the freedom to help build your community is
the freedom to contribute your improvements.
Now, these freedoms are not really
something new.
It may be new to people to encounter
these freedoms for software,
but lots of people are used to these freedoms
for something rather similar to software,
namely recipes.
A program and a recipe are similar
but each of them is a series of steps
to carry out to get the results you want.
Now it's true there are differences as well:
a recipe is carried out by a cook who's thinking,
whereas a program is carried out by a machine.
But for this comparison
it's the similarities that matter.
Because cooks are accustomed to using
recipes freely whenever they want to.
And cooks are also accustomed to
looking at the ingredients,
for instance to see if there's anything
that Joe is allergic to, say,
or anything that Joe
doesn't like the taste of,
or that the cook doesn't like the taste of.
And cooks are accustomed to
changing recipes for various reasons.
Cooks also are accustomed to making copies
of recipes for their friends,
getting recipes from their friends.
It's a little bit less common
to write down your changed version of a recipe
and make a copy for other people,
but people do that too.
So it's the same four freedoms
that cooks are accustomed to for recipes.
So imagine if some day,
the government starts saying
that if you copy or change or share a recipe,
then you're a pirate and
they'll put you in prison for years.
Imagine how angry people will be.
Well, that's the same anger that started
the free software movement.
I said, "How dare you try to stop me
from changing software?"
"How dare you tell me that I can't
be a decent person by sharing software?"
I said I refuse to live that way.
I said I won't stand for that non-free software.
So I was determined to get it out of my life,
to reject it.
And that required a lot of work.
And that work is the free software movement.